Understand the skelton of a java program:


Every user , to develop the code in java , the only place holder we have here is "Class File"


Structure of a class file:


Class SomeName{


// wirte your business logic



}

yes we came to knbow what is the basic structure of the java class file.

Nopw if wanrt to execute or run , my program how can i execute it?

Before you think about it, we must ensure that there is main method available inside the class file or not?

Why should think about it?

This the rule which was made by the compiler , to check and execute the program.

This main method is called as starting point of execution.


so there is no way to skip the main method , only when you  want to execute the program.

syntax of the main method:

public static void main(String[] args)
{
// call your logic from here
}

Now this main method must be included in between the class file curly brackets

Class SomeName{

	public static void main(String[] args)
		{
			// call your logic from here
		}


}

Note:
Only if you have main method , user can see run option with java application.



To see the ouput of a program in java , we use a most commonly used syntax

System.Out.Println("Some message" or some number);



Note:In java each statement must need to ends with semicolon


Variable:

A variable is called as memeory holder

it is used to store the data,copy and send the data across the programs either it may available in same file or in other file.

To store the data inside a varible, one must define its datatype

datatype is the one which tells, that what kind of data does a variable is storing.

These types are splited into two

	* Primitive
	* Non-Primitive
the adatatypes that we use in java


Primitive Datatypes:

int===to store integer values(whole numbers)
long
boolean
short
double
char
float
byte

each one of the above listed datatype is size oriented one


Non-Primitive:

Integer
String
Boolean
Array
Long
Byte.....

they differ in cases,

Primitive datatypes will not have methods associate with it
where as non primitive will have methods

Primitive datatypes will; not have memeory address location, where as non primitive will have


How to create a variable:

There are multiple ways to create a varaible

1.Declaration

datatype variablename;

when we declare a variable a small memory block will be created in the main memeory

2.Intialization

variableName="some value";




When we have multiple variable of same type, we can declere then in a single line 

int a,b,result;

















